#summary What you need to get started with VBIT
#labels Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

You'll need to build the hardware. You must have the ability to assemble surface mount boards and stick down TQFP chips with confidence. Unless this project really takes off I can not manufacture boards for you.
If you want to develop code then you will be pleased to hear that all tool chain is freely downloadable. The code is written entirely in C.

= Hardware =
The hardware is two parts. A processor board that you buy ready made and a video board that you will have to make.
  * Buy the JM-XD300-USB board from http://xmega.mattair.net/index.html
  * You'll also need a miniusb cable to go with it.
  * A VBIT board. Contact me if you want to buy a bare board. I have a few in stock made by Beta Layout. They do need a few patches.
  * The project has circuit diagrams, gerbers and a bill of materials that I will post if anyone needs it.

Sadly the processor board is probably not available so the project will be moving to the next generation Mattairtech board, which is due in May 2011. However, it has a real time clock so this will make it possible to run the teletext time without needing a PC host and will also help with date stamping files on the SD card. It could also be used for scheduling so again you could have a complete standalone system.

Also the SAA7113 is a bit rare these days and my usual suppliers no longer stock it. If you find a reasonable source for small quantities of these then please let me know.

= Software =
The software is in three broad categories, namely tools, libraries and source code.
==Tools==
  * Atmel AVR Studio 4. Used for programming the XMEGA via the AVRISP simulator.
  * Atmel Flip. Used for programming the AVR USB SPI Bridge.
  * WinAVR. The toolchain including compiler and linker
  * You may also like to download the demo code for the JM-XD200-USB board as it contains many useful examples and it may have better USB bridge code.
  * Optional: AVR Dragon JTAG programmer. This is much lower cost than the JTAGICE MkII but if you are debugging then this will save a lot of time.
==Libraries==
These libraries may need to be installed.
  * LUFA is the Lightweight USB Framework for AVRs by Dean Camera.
  * FatFS is the FAT filing system that is used to read the SD card.
==Source Code==
This is the actual VBIT code. Currently it links into the dev board's demo software. More details about how to do it...
==Load the code==
The JM-XD200-USB should have no jumpers installed. Press HWB and momentarily press RESET. The unit will now be in AVRISP mode. It pretends to be AVRISP MkII so select that in AVR Studio 4. The target device is ATXMEGA128A1. On my system the compiled image is called XMEGA_Demo.hex. I don't think that you need to bother with the eep. If it programs OK then press RESET and the system should be running. The LEDs should start to flicker if there is a video source connected to VBIT.
To find which COM port you have been assigned go into System->Hardware->Ports (Com). Find a suspicious com port with a number higher than 2. Look at the properties. It should identify itself as being JM-XD200-USB). Note the COM number and use this to connect using Hyperterminal.
In Hyperterminal type
<CTRL-N>0Y<RETURN>
It should reply something like 
VBIT620 Version 0.01